# ReadMe
This is a respository for draft thesis files for ENGG4009, ENGG4010 - Engineering Honours Project A, Engineering Honours Project B (Extended). This is the work of obrkw001 unless otherwise listed. Contributions are welcomed.

# Research Proposal Introduction
In the 1860’s Maxwell formulated theories of electro-magnetic propagation through free space. Since then, radio has been a constantly evolving field. Due to the proliferation of radio communication, the Radio Frequency (RF) spectrum is approaching saturation, making it difficult to find free space to communicate. This is managed by separating the spectrum into channels, requiring a radio with the ability to tune to di↵erent frequencies in order to observe di↵erent transmissions. Utilising digital signals, issues inherent to radio transmissions can be mitigated; signal integrity can be preserved in noisy environments, and error detection and correction can be integrated into the process. Digital channelisation is a fundamental part of modern communication technologies such as mobile (GSM, 3G, 4G, 5G) and WiFi. Without the growth of digital computing and digital signal processing, radio would still be a primative process in the analogue domain. Hardware required for digital radio is smaller, cheaper and far more efficient, consequently allowing these technologies to exist. Digital channelisation is currently performed on purpose-built hardware, but advances in hardware technologies and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) density have encouraged the growth of Software Defined Radio (SDR) and the ability observe larger portions of the spectrum. Currently, there is no ‘open-source’ channeliser technology available or implemented; the following research is to build a framework supportive of an open source channeliser.
